
   
   
      
         
            Harmonic Convergences
            

            You're right, Maxim's strong point is that it's totally unsentimental
and ungenteel. It's a sendup of the old model, but in a different way than,
say, Hustler was, and the difference (surprise) reflects the sexual
culture of the '90s. With its belligerent grossness and misogyny,
Hustler rebelled against the establishment men's mags' class
condescension, the earnest philosophizing about the sexual revolution, the
"thinking men's sex bomb" syndrome, at the same time that it was deliberately
goading feminists. It came right out with the anger that the regular men's mags
tried to hide. Maxim pokes fun at its progenitors but with considerable
ironic affection. It's not angry. In fact, while its fondness for the most
idiotic, juvenile humor knows no bounds, any strong emotion is taboo (unless
you count horror at having your penis mangled)--that's part of the British
influence, I guess. And feminism isn't an issue, at least not directly--partly
because its basic ideas have been assimilated and are taken for granted, partly
because politics in general and feminism in particular barely exist in the
consciousness of Maxim's age group. (Whereas Gear, which retains
certain elements of the old men's mag ethos, and the old hostility--and not
incidentally runs somewhat longer articles--does worry about and argue with
feminism, as in its recent piece on sexual repression in the military, in which
it is argued, after a fashion, that 1) we can't suppress male soldiers' urge to
rape and harass women without suppressing the urge to kill that's the
military's reason for being, 2) sexual harassment crusades interfere with
women's equality, 3) women soldiers aren't men's equals anyway, and 4) why do
we need women in the military in the first place?)

            Another thing I've noticed is that the trajectory of the new men's magazines
and that of contemporary women's magazines seem to be converging, at least
compared with 20 years ago. There used to be an enormous gulf between the sense
of entitlement to the good things of life, including women, that pervaded the
men's mags and women's anxious obsession with self-improvement in order to be
worthy of male attention. In young women's magazines now, Cosmo being
the paradigm, there's a much more bluntly instrumental, "male" attitude toward
getting sex of the quantity and quality desired. Beauty is as central a
preoccupation as ever, if anything more so, but the preoccupation has much more
of a narcissistic, self-pampering quality and less of a desperation to make up
for some irrecoverable, primal imperfection. In the men's magazines, there's
much more of a sense that if you want women to give you the time of day, you
have to make some effort to find out what they want and give it to them. In the
old model, if men needed advice on women or sex, they got it from a male expert
like the "Playboy Advisor." Now Maxim features advice from women on such
matters as how not to give the wrong impression on a first date.

            On the other hand, men still don't like to express anxiety directly--I'd
guess that part of the reason men's mags have gotten sillier is that they've
seized on men's time-honored method of covering up insecurity by clowning
around. Regarding your suggestion that these magazines give men a safe place to
be together without their heterosexuality being questioned: That sounds like
more of a hope (on their part) than a reality. Because it's ultimately
self-doubt that really matters, no place can really be safe--hence the
need to escalate the jokes.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            All the King's Men

            In the September Vanity Fair , profiler Marjorie Williams offers this
tasty Larry King anecdote:

            "One of the most oft told of the Larry Stories that circulate at CNN
concerns his take-out order when he eats dinner at his desk, before the show.
His favorite dish, from a local Chinese restaurant, is a chicken with
cashews--without the fat-laden cashews. When the food arrives, a young intern
or production assistant is charged with combing through it to remove any errant
nuts; then he or she has to swaddle the chicken in paper towels and squeeze out
any excess oil."

            A friend of Chatterbox's, who recalls his two-year tenure as King's Grease
Monkey, says that Williams got the story right, but underplays how loopy the
talk-show host is about his vittles.

            "I drained Larry's meat for almost two years while working for the show. The
intern/production assistant must open his cranberry juice and pour it over ice
for him, just so . He also wants the packets of hot mustard opened for
him and spread over the chicken. If he spots nuts or excess grease in his grub,
the show is ruined! During commercial breaks, he will harp about the botched
meal, unsettling the King crew and guest alike. The intern/production assistant
can only dive for cover."

            The retired Grease Monkey says that the only time there was absolute calm on
the set was when King went out to dinner.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Picture This

            When the conservatives in Congress gutted the National Endowment for the
Arts, they predicted that art patrons from the private sector would come
forward to fill the ensuing culture gap. Balderdash, said the art community.
But proving them wrong are the conservatives at the American Enterprise
Institute, which commissioned three historical portraits by Minnesota artist
Mark Balma, to be unveiled next month at an AEI reception in the Cannon House
Office Building.

            Without actually viewing them, Chatterbox can't comment on whether or not
these are great paintings, but we are prepared to judge these works by their
titles:

            
               A Shared Vision pairs Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. Yes, they
were statesmen, bringing compromise and tact to everything that they did. Also,
they shared a vision, and are historical. Good job, AEI!

            
               Resolution, we're not so sure about. This painting depicts the Gulf
War All-Star starting five of George Bush, James Baker, Dick Cheney, Brent
Scowcroft, and Colin Powell. Historical, yes, but haven't all of the subjects
crawled under consulting/public-speaking/book-promoting rocks since the end of
the Bush administration? It might not be very good, but it's very big--a
whopping 144 square feet.

            Making the strongest argument for the return of the National Endowment is
The Four Statesmen, depicting everybody's favorite '70s political hacks:
Gerald Ford, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, James Callaghan, and Helmut Schmidt.

            Can we have Karen Finley and Piss Christ back, please?

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            There Once Was a Columnist From Nantucket

            August is the cruelest month for readers of the New York Times op-ed
page not on vacation. Listen to Russell Baker's Aug. 19 column about absolutely
nothing save the fact that he has summered on Nantucket for a long time: "It
used to be when you took the ferry out to Nantucket Island you were really out
of it....That was part of its charm." Baker goes on to complain about the
island's new popularity and the ostentatious displays of wealth. Less fortunate
readers may not quite share Baker's indignation.

            Under an Aug. 27 dateline of West Tisbury, Mass., that well-known news
hotspot, Ward Just takes the political pulse and finds Vineyarders less excited
about the president's visit this year. He also describes in detail his moments
on the island's Milk Meadows golf course. On the same page, under a Northeast
Harbor, Me., dateline, Paul H. Nitze contributes a piece ostensibly about
industrial smog. His lede: "For the past 60 years I have vacationed in Maine
during the summer."

            But the Times op-ed page, as it turns out, has subtle ways of
taunting work-bound readers. The Aug. 24 page offers straight-ahead pieces on
the UPS strike and on current understanding of the cosmos, but the datelines
are East Hampton, N.Y., and Chilmark, Mass. Given that the page doesn't publish
datelines for every op-ed, the reader can only sense that he is being
mocked.

            Even when pieces don't carry datelines, as is the case with A.M. Rosenthal's
column of Aug. 12, the section still finds a way to scald those still
straphanging in August's heat. "Lovely day at the shore--warmed by the sun,"
Rosenthal begins. "Then Jimmy Carter appears, bringing the shadow that travels
with him now."

            No, Jimmy hasn't just joined Abe at the beach. The 39th president--like the
reader--is an imagined presence.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Bad-Boy Nostalgia
            

            Think your analysis is spot-on, Ellen. (How's that for a disincentive to
keep reading?) It's no coincidence that Golin had his apprenticeships at both
Men's Health and Cosmo, two magazines unlikely ever to be accused
of sentimentality or pretension. The crucial lesson taught by those two
publications, and successful mass-market mags in general, is a rigorous
anti-elitism: Esquire and GQ posit, explicitly or by inference,
that only winners will be let into their club. In this week's Advertising
Age, GQ editor Art Cooper asks why condom advertisers bother to take
out pages in Maxim, since the readership is composed entirely of
masturbators. I'm pretty sure Cooper was joking, but the dis was clear.
GQ="classy." Maxim=hopelessly déclassé. But who wants to be
classy anymore? The recent vogues for cigars, cocktails, and the Rat Pack were
not wistful evocations of a more civilized time; they were wistful evocations
of the last great period of big Straight White Guy fun, before the broads and
the fags came in to ruin it all. It was Sinatra's Pack's bad-boy behavior the
late-'90s ersatz swells are celebrating, not the fine tailoring on his
three-button suits.

            The tits in these magazines, likewise, are not there for the purpose of
"trouser-rousing" (as Details so delicately put it in its current
issue). The photos are rarely "hot" in the manner of pornography or even in the
manner of the Sports Illustrated tanned-fleshy swimsuit numbers. They
are more like '90s answers to the calender girls and pinups of the mid-century,
suggestive more than titillating, festive more than funky. The men's-mag
T&A is really about providing a kind of boys-only atmosphere in
which the complicated tradeoffs involved in three decades of negotiating with
women's lib can be neatly tuned out.

            This is not really anti-feminist, since much of the new laddism seems to be
coming at the behest of a new generation of Cosmo-trained sex-addled
fembots. How terrifying Monica Lewinsky's blithe attitude toward phone sex must
have been to the baby boomers. Hey, talking nasty to the president is just
fun. And how irrelevant is capital-F Feminism now that NOW et al. have
given a tacit thumbs up to the president's sexual harassment of an intern (an
issue that even three years ago would have provoked mau-mauing of the highest
order)? We've come a long way since Clarence Thomas.

            Indeed, feminism feels like a
dead letter both in magazines and in the culture at large .

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Don't Shoot! We're Animals!

            Never mind the ethics of paparazzi who torment celebrities. Bill
McKibben wants the commercial photographers who shoot wildlife to lay down
their Leicas.

            Writing in the fall issue of Doubletake--Robert Coles' slick magazine
of essays, photographs, reportage, and poetry--McKibben accuses commercial
wildlife photographers of needlessly stressing caribou and other critters by
stalking them by airplane. He also damns them for staging the "jillions to one"
pictures of emerald boas eating parrots because it creates false expectations
of what the wilderness is all about. Evidence that the public has gone mad on
wildlife photography can be found in Yellowstone Park, he says, where wildlife
porn (Chatterbox's phrase, not McKibben's) has convinced tourists that bears
are approachable beasts. In fact, bears that become habituated to people
usually end up getting snuffed by rangers because they become dangerous
pests.

            McKibben's solution? A moratorium on new commercial wildlife photography. He
calls on the top nature magazines and TV shows to pick a date and refuse to
purchase any photos taken after that. It's not as if there aren't enough
photographs. One magazine art director points out that she reviewed 10,000
slides of elephants a few years ago while planning a story on them.

            This isn't censorship, it's editing, McKibben writes. "Self-restraint is the
uniquely human gift, the one talent no other creature or community possesses
even as a possibility."

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Chatterdump

            Did Clinton-hating gossipmonger Matt Drudge actually do the president a
favor by forcing the Monica Lewinsky story out into the open before special
prosecutor Kenneth Starr could wire her up and get Clinton to say something
damaging on tape, as Starr apparently planned to do?...

            If Clinton has had affairs with dozens of women, where are all the women he
hit on and didn't have affairs with? Does he score every time? When Chatterbox
hits on women, its success rate is--well, let's not say what the rate is. But
it's less than 100 percent--less than 50 percent, even ...

            Which American is happiest about Clinton's current predicament? Chatterbox
nominates Gary Hart, who must have spent the past five years wondering how
Clinton got away with it ...

            Paranoid's corner: A few weeks after a front-page New York Times
story on the disappearance of lucrative speaking engagements for Washington
pundits, a huge scandal breaks that will surely revive demand for...speeches by
Washington pundits, who can now retail titillating tidbits ("Let me tell you
about the Vernon Jordan I know ...") Mere coincidence? Chatterbox's friend
Walter, who pointed this out, thinks not ...

            In 1994, defending President Clinton against right-wing hit man David Brock,
a liberal pundit wrote: "It would bother me greatly if Clinton was still
messing around after the 60 Minutes interview--let alone after the
election. That would reveal a brutal willingness to deceive the public--way
beyond the normal politicians' cynicism--as well as a frightening lack of
self-control ..." Who was the liberal pundit? Michael Kinsley, now

                  Slate's editor. Prepare to be bothered greatly, buddy ...

            Speaking of paranoia: In retrospect, maybe Hillary Clinton wasn't so crazy
to be concerned about ridding the White House of Bush holdovers when her
husband took office. One of those holdovers, Linda Tripp, made the tapes that
now threaten the Clinton presidency. Bet the Clintons wish they'd gotten rid of
her in 1993, along with the travel-office staff ...

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No Gore in '04

            The press bears a heavy burden of responsibility in the crisis now engulfing
the White House. It is imperative that we not get ahead of ourselves and that
we avoid a speculative rush to judgment ... Oh, what the hell. Let's speculate!
Suppose Clinton resigns next week, and Gore becomes president. If Chatterbox
reads the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution correctly, that means Gore can
only run for the presidency once, in 2000. (The 22nd Amendment says you can
only be elected president twice, and if you serve more than two years of a term
"to which some other person was elected" you can only be elected once.) If Gore
wants to maximize his potential years in the presidency, Clinton has to hang on
until at least Jan. 21, 1999, so Gore can serve less than two years of
Clinton's term and then two full terms of his own ... Of course, if Clinton
drags it out for another year and then quits, he'll probably be so unpopular
that he'll pull Gore down with him. And he'll deprive Gore of a crucial year in
which to build his own record of accomplishment.

            Memo to Martin Peretz, owner of the New Republic : You've
enthusiastically supported the ambitions of Gore, your former student--you've
said confidently that you intend to own the magazine until "the end of Al
Gore's second term" as president. You even sacked your magazine's editor,
Michael Kelly, at least in part because, in his "obsessive" (your term) attacks
on the character of the Clinton administration, Kelly ... how to put it ...
failed to completely appreciate Gore's virtues. If you've been reading the 22nd
Amendment too, it must now be tempting to use your magazine to at least help
prop Clinton up until the two-year deadline is past, so Gore can run twice. But
if the above analysis is correct, the last thing Gore needs is for Clinton to
dangle, injured, Nixon-like, for a year or two. You need to get rid of Clinton
now, even if it means Gore is a one-and-a-half-term president at best. The
obvious solution: Bring back Kelly! Go for the kill! ... Anyway, in retrospect,
hasn't Kelly's "obsessive" anti-Clintonism been a wee bit vindicated?

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Eight Questions About Monica, Etc.

            The writer Edward Jay Epstein has sent Chatterbox the following e-mail
message, subject: "Preliminary Concerns I Have About Monica and Other Babes
From Beverly Hills."

            
               1. Monica's roots may be relevant. Her mother, Marcia Lewis (a k a
Lewinsky), a former Hollywood Reporter reporter, wrote a book about "The
Private Lives of the Three Tenors." In the cover blurb, to help sell books, she
teasingly suggests that she had an affair with Placido Domingo. The claim was
false.

            
               2. Monica achieved her internship not through her scholarship at
Lewis & Clark College but through the intervention of Walter Kaye, who
donated enough to the Clinton campaign to be invited to sleep in the White
House. Was this the reason she later got Jordan's attention?

            
               3. Can anyone really believe Vernon Jordan, the ultimate Washington
insider (and survivor), would recklessly tell a 24-year-old to perjure herself
when he has so many safer, legal ways to achieve the same end? For example,
getting her a lawyer, who, like all lawyers, would let her know her full
scenario of options. (I can't.)

            
               4. Is it coincidental that prior to befriending Monica, Linda R.
Tripp had engaged a literary agent, Lucy Goldberg, who specializes in expos,s
of Clinton's sex life and had copies of the tapes? And what was Tripp's
interest in writing on the Vince Foster case?

            
               5. Did Tripp tip off the Paula Jones gang about Monica? If so, did it
lead to the following three events: 1) Monica called Clinton's secretary to
alert POTUS that she was about to be deposed. 2) Clinton returned the call on
her voice mail. 3) Clinton dispatched Jordan to find out why Paula Jones was
about to depose Monica.

            
               6. Would Jordan have helped Monica get a job at Revlon if he knew a)
she was about to perjure herself at his request and b) his help could be
construed as a bribe to facilitate the perjury? Or would he have helped her if
she assured him that she had had no affair with Clinton, and he was therefore
merely helping an ex-intern with fund-raising connections who, if disposed of
and deposed in a friendly manner, would be one less problem.

            
               7. Which elements of Monica's story suggest she is given to telling
the truth?

            a) Her affidavit: She never had sex with Clinton;
b) Her alleged statement to Vernon Jordan: She never had sex with
Clinton;
c) Her recorded statement: She always lies
d) Her recorded statement: She had sex with Clinton over a one-year period.

            
               8. Will it emerge that she had previously falsely charged that other
powerful men in her life, like her high-school and college professors, had had
sex with her?

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Stephanopoulos Analyzes His Own Crime

            There was former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos on ABC's This
Week this morning, furrow-browed and "heartbroken with all the evidence
coming out" against the president. Last week, when the Lewinsky story was only
a few hours old, Stephanopoulos popped up on Good Morning America to
demonstrate his concern. "These are probably the most serious allegations yet
leveled against the president. There's no question that, if they're true, they
... could lead to impeachment proceedings."

            Is Chatterbox alone in thinking there is something strange and even
disgusting about Stephanopoulos' eager show of independence from the president?
The problem isn't so much his disloyalty. Political figures turn on each other
from time to time, for good and bad reasons; we're used to it. Stephanopoulos
wants to run for the Senate and doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge. By
lending credence to the Lewinsky charges, and treating Clinton's familiar
defenses as the lies and half-lies they seem to be, Stephanopoulos shows he's
not a fool.

            The trouble is that Stephanopoulos himself helped propagate those lies in
the first place. During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought
Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief
spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in
discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely
that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem. (Don't say Stephanopoulos didn't
know. Again, he's not a fool.) Simply put, Stephanopoulos did as much as any
man to get the country into the mess he now so telegenically laments.

            The 1993 documentary The War Room captures some of his efforts on
tape. Early in the film, with the Flowers crisis in full bloom, Sam Donaldson
interviews Stephanopoulos, who blames it all on the "Republican attack
machine." "Gov. Clinton has no character problem," Stephanopoulos declares.
Donaldson suggests that on 60 Minutes Clinton had admitted to
infidelity. "He said he had problems in his marriage," says Stephanopoulos,
correcting Donaldson's deviation from the pre-scripted fudge-phrase of the day.
(Today, of course, the president's defenders claim that Clinton admitted
infidelity on 60 Minutes and that the fully informed voters simply
didn't care.)

            Near the end of The War Room, Stephanopoulos gets a call from someone
who apparently claims to have a list of Clinton paramours, which he is about to
publicize. Stephanopoulos skillfully bullies and cajoles him into keeping
quiet. "You would be laughed at ..." he tells the caller. "I guarantee you that
if you do this you'll never work in Democratic politics again. ... Nobody will
believe you and people will think you're scum."

            You might say that Stephanopoulos helped invent the philander-protection
techniques that seem to have made Clinton so overconfident of his ability to
not get caught. He was one of Clinton's principal enablers, to use a word
employed by Maureen Dowd in today's New York Times . When Democrats
wonder why there is so much resentment of Clinton, they don't need to look much
further than the Big Lie about philandering that Stephanopoulos, Carville (and
a cooperative campaign press corps) helped to put over in 1992.

            Now the dissembler and enabler has become the scholar and ABC News analyst.
It's as if Roy Cohn went on television in the mid-'50s to soberly rue the
damage wreaked by Sen. Joe McCarthy, without any apology for his own role. Much
has been made of the way famous wrongdoers (e.g.: Dick Morris, Marv Albert)
rebound too quickly in our celebrity culture. But usually at least a nanosecond
of contrition is required. Stephanopoulos is cashing in without even going
through the minimal motions of holding himself accountable for misleading the
country. If Clinton, as is now increasingly clear, was a time bomb waiting to
explode, then Stephanopoulos helped smuggle him into the White House and
muffled the ticking.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            I Sing the Body Elected

            As everyone knows, President Clinton gave ex-intern Monica Lewinsky an
inscribed copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass . And a fine gift it
is--Chatterbox frequently gives this very volume to women with whom it is not
having sexual relations. But perhaps the book contained some deeper, more
personal meaning to the president or Ms. Lewinsky. 
                  Slate
               's crack
panel of Whitman scholars has convened in emergency session to draw our
attention (and that of the Independent Counsel) to the following passages:

            ARE you the new person drawn toward me?
    To begin with, take warning--I am surely far
        different from what you suppose;
    Do you suppose you will find in me your ideal?
    Do you think it so easy to have me become your
        lover?
    Do you think the friendship of me would be
        unalloy'd satisfaction?
    Do you think I am trusty and faithful?
    Do you see no further than this facade--this smooth
        and tolerant manner of me?
    Do you suppose yourself advancing on real ground
        toward a real heroic man?
    Have you no thought, O dreamer, that it may be all
        maya, illusion?

            --from "Are You the New person, drawn toward Me"

            Only what proves itself to every man and woman is so;
    Only what nobody denies is so.

            --from "Walt Whitman"

            I pour the stuff to start sons and daughters fit for
        These States--I press with slow rude muscle,
    I brace myself effectually--I listen to no entreaties,
    I dare not withdraw till I deposit what has so long
        accumulated within me,
Through you I drain the pent-up rivers of myself,

            --from "A Woman Waits for Me"

            Do I contradict myself?
    Very well, then, I contradict myself;

            --from "Walt Whitman"

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Chatterdump: How to Stop Drudge, Etc.

            
               THEY MAY have finally found a way to neutralize Matt Drudge--make him
famous! Since the Monica Mess broke, Drudge has apparently been so busy giving
interviews and making television appearances that he's had no time to write his
famed dispatches. The last one was Jan. 21...Did you notice on Meet the
Press how Drudge's face seems to curve from top to bottom like a giant
half-moon letter "C"? Peyronie's Disease of the chin?.... While Chatterbox
loves Drudge (except for that nasty Sidney Blumenthal business), on TV he does
come across as one mighty weird fellow...

            
               MUCH CHATTER about what a relaxed good mood Vice President Al Gore
was in when he showed up at a dinner last Wednesday honoring the Associated
Press. The Monica story had broken that morning...

            
               CHATTERBOX WAS GOING to predict that Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan of
New York would be the first prominent Democrat to suggest that Clinton might
have to resign....Really we were...But Moynihan beat us to the punch with his
declaration in the New York Post that Clinton could not survive
admitting an affair with Lewinsky. The Post said Moynihan's comments
"carry special clout" because "he is one of the Senate's most respected
members, seen as a leader on matters of ethics and values." In truth,
Moynihan's remarks were as predictable as the sunrise. He's been getting press
by stabbing Clinton in the back since before Clinton's election. Moynihan
endorsed Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey against Clinton in the 1992 primary. Later he
publicly undermined Clinton's health care plan. Then he undermined Clinton's
welfare plan. Anyone who reads Moynihan's recent book Miles to Go will
see he strongly dislikes, if not loathes the president. He may have good reason
for this disdain, but it means his resignation talk doesn't carry much weight
at all. He probably thought Clinton should resign before the Monica
scandal.... Like the anti-Republican "Republican analyst" Kevin Phillips,
Moynihan is a convenient figure reporters know they can count on for a
faux-contrarian remark...Who will be next to stick in the shiv? Chatterbox
predicts Kerrey, who knows he shouldn't but who won't be able to resist...

            
               DEPARTMENT OF GROVELING: Bill McMichael e-mails about a Chatterbox
item speculating that Gary Hart must be happy at Clinton's troubles: "That was
a very cheap shot against Hart, and my guess is that he is gloomy over the
whole mess, not experiencing any schadenfreude." If so, Hart is a bigger man
than Chatterbox. But Chatterbox magnanimously concedes McMichael has a
point....

            
               THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
                editorial page Monday goes on about
"anti-social personality disorder, as psychiatrists now call it," only to
conclude "in Mr. Clinton's case a strict diagnosis does not hold..."

         
      
   
﻿
   
   
      
         
            Who's on Top?

            A split in the commentariat: Writing in Time , Andrew Ferguson says
that if Clinton is driven from office it will be not be because he had an
adulterous affair while in the White House, but because "the girl is by many
definitions still a girl ... 21, fresh from college" and "decent people in
positions of power do not exploit the vulnerable for kicks." It will also be
because of "the kind of sex they had"--which Ferguson, following press accounts
of Monica's accounts, characterizes as "strictly one-way, designed for maximum
pleasure" of the president. Meanwhile, in The New Yorker , Larissa
MacFarquhar rejects the notion that Monica is a victim. She's "a college
graduate of twenty-one" who will at worst wind up with a great book deal. And
Clinton is "a babe" ...

            Who's right? MacFarquhar's historical scholarship is open to question. She
seems to believe Lewinsky got to "sleep with ... the President," something the
tapes actually contradict. As the girl who lives down the hall from Chatterbox
complains, "she gives him a blow job and then has to wait around in receiving
lines!" ... On the other hand, suppose Clinton had gone all the way and driven
Lewinsky wild with pleasure. Would that change Ferguson's mind? Probably not.
As for the age difference--well, wouldn't it be just typical of baby boomers
like Ferguson to define anyone younger than they are as immature, not quite
adult. ...

            Chatterbox believes the dynamics of human sexuality are complex and subtle,
and it's hard to tell who is taking advantage of whom at any one time. Clinton
may be a user, but you don't get driven from office for being a user. (Name a
successful pol who isn't.) He doesn't seem to have egregiously led Lewinsky on
with lies and fake JFK-style promises of love or matrimony, in the classic
male-asshole mode. Yes, he did talk of strains in his marriage and suggested
the he'd be "alone" after he left the White House. But that may have been the
truth. Overall, the situation must have been pretty clear. Chatterbox sides
with MacFarquhar, at least at this point in time. Neither Lewinsky nor Clinton
were victims. There were victims, but they are to be found outside the
relationship. ...

            Oh, yes: If true! Almost forgot.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            "Full-Service" Chatterdump

            
               HOW LONG can famed D.C.-Hollywood-N.Y. beauty Patricia Duff--former
spouse of movie executive Mike Medavoy and Revlon tycoon Ronald Perelman--stay
out of the Clinterngate mess? In Hit and Run , their highly-regarded
expose of the early-'90s Sony studio debacle, Nancy Griffin and Kim Masters
report as follows: "At a dinner party at a producer's home, which took place
after [Patricia] and Mike had slept in the Lincoln Bedroom, she told thePatricia later said she
gathering that Clinton was 'a full-service president.' 
meant to refer only to Clinton's hospitality, but her listeners didn't
interpret the remark that way." ...

            
               AN EMERGING DEFENSE of Clinton is that Linda Tripp's evidence is
somehow tainted because she's been out to get the president all along. But if
she were really out to get him, why would she have contradicted Kathleen
Willey's reported story that she (Willey) did not welcome Clinton's advances?
Tripp told Newsweek that Willey did not seem upset at the time, but
instead looked "flustered, happy and joyful." Certainly it would be more
damaging to Clinton if Tripp said Willey was distraught and angry, an obvious
victim of harassment. ... Also, why would Tripp, in order to get Clinton to
settle the Paula Jones lawsuit, have urged Lewinsky to tell Clinton that she
(Lewinsky) had been blabbing about their sexual encounters? Tipping Clinton off
would only help the president. Settling the Jones case would have helped him
too (avoiding the whole perjury issue). But it would also have gotten Tripp out
of testifying (and contradicting Lewinsky). Maybe Tripp is telling the truth
when she says she was really terrified of having to testify, not hell-bent on
destroying Clinton. ...

            
               WE LOVE HIM WHEN HE'S ANGRY: Is Chatterbox alone in feeling that
Clinton's State of the Union address was actually much more forceful because
the president seemed a little tense and pissed off--not doing his usual
ingratiating, good humored sales job. Something really seemed to be at stake.
...

            
               THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF TALK that Clinton has broken an "implicit pact"
with the American people that was struck after he confronted Gennifer Flowers'
allegations in his famous 1992 60 Minutes interview. But what exactly
was this unwritten deal? Many commentators (e.g., columnist Ellen Goodman,
Jonathan Alter of Newsweek ) seem to believe Clinton effectively promised
not to screw around again in the future. Andrew Ferguson of Time argues
that since the voters didn't care about Flowers, "an implicit bargain was
struck," which held that Clinton would only screw around with people "roughly
his own age," and do it discreetly. Chatterbox thinks Clinton believes the
implicit bargain was this: Since the voters didn't care about Flowers, they'll
let him get away with it again. That's the problem with those "implicit"
bargains. Memo to electorate: Next time get it in writing. ...

            
               SEEN ON A BULLETIN BOARD at Columbia University (honest!):

            INTERN WANTED FOR GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS

            ALL CC '99 AND CC '00 ELIGIBLE 15 HOURS PER WEEK/UNPAID

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            What Did George Know and When Did He Spin It?

            ABC News analyst George Stephanopoulos is shocked, shocked to think that
Clinton's been screwing around! Or, rather, in his recent Newsweek essay
(Feb. 2 issue), he is "livid." He feels "betrayal." He doesn't "know whether to
be angry, or sad, or both." Stephanopoulos thus adopts the only defense he
has--a plea of ignorance--to the obvious charge (see, for example, Chatterbox
for 1/25) that he himself helped mislead the voters in 1992 when defending
Clinton against a variety of zipper-related charges.

            Poor trusting little George! During the 1992 campaign, however, this naivete
must have been rather hard to maintain. First, Stephanopoulos, rounded up
affidavits to squelch an article in Penthouse by groupie Connie Hamzy,
who said Clinton propositioned her in a Little Rock hotel in 1984. Then he
helped squelch an early Star story on Clinton's womanizing. Then he
participated in the vilification of Gennifer Flowers.

            Can it be true that Stephanopoulos entertained no serious doubts about
Clinton? Of course not. Newsweek's own book on the 1992 campaign,
Quest for the Presidency , reports "the secret suspicion, widely shared
in the campaign, that some of the rumors about the governor were true and that
the Flowers story might just be one of them." (Indeed, the core of Flowers'
account--that there was an affair--was confirmed during the campaign by one of
her roommates.) Later, according to the Newsweek book, Stephanopoulos,
James Carville, and Mandy Grunwald were so demoralized by Clinton's lack of
candor that they crashed on a bed together, "too numb with fatigue and despair
to speak."

            Even now, in his current Newsweek essay, Stephanopoulos--spinning his
own crisis of credibility--admits "I assumed without asking that something had
happened between" Clinton and Flowers. Well? Doesn't that mean he knew Clinton
was, at best, misleading and dissembling in his famous 60 Minutes
interview? If you persist in foisting a candidate on the nation in the face of
such doubts, it's a little much to cry "betrayal" later. If Stephanopoulos
didn't know all along, his self-enforced ignorance (why did he go on "without
asking"?) was the equivalent of the journalists' "reckless disregard of
truth."

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            When Is a B___ J___ Not a B___ J___? etc.

            
               SUNDAY'S NEW YORK TIMES
                says the Monica mess appears to have
"blurred the boundaries between mainstream and tabloid news." Blurred? The
lines have actually crossed in at least one instance. Time magazine
semi-unflinchingly reported that Lewinsky said she could be "Special Assistant
to the President for b___ j___." The supermarket tabloid Star was
actually more decorous, describing Lewinsky's fantasy job title as "Special
assistant to the president for (oral sex)." Even that was too much for the
hoity-toity tabloid Globe , which said only that "Monica joked about her
alleged romance by saying that she was 'special assistant to the president.'"
That Monica! ....

            
               WITH MONICA WOBBLING SLOWLY IN THE WIND , the Kathleen Willey incident
may now assume more importance. Do people realize just how creepy Clinton's
behavior was, if the worst reported details of Willey's testimony are true?
Here is a woman whose husband has been caught misappropriating funds, who must
find a way to repay $274,000 within days. She's desperate (indeed, her husband
would commit suicide before the deadline). She needs a job. She goes to see the
president, who at this moment of temporary advantage takes her into a side room
and gropes her breast and puts her hand on his genitals, saying he "always
wanted" to do that. If true, this is not a consensual affair with Gennifer
Flowers, or even a tryst with an employee like Monica Lewinsky. This is
casting-couch piggishness of a sort that would make Bob Packwood blanch.
...

            
               WHAT IF CLINTON manages to survive? Consider the psychological
effects on three groups of Washington characters:

            1) The Right Wing Conspirators: They thought they had him, but he slipped
away again. Contempt for the electorate (and democracy) among this group will
skyrocket. Some already seem practically ready to pick up the gun and join
militias.

            2) The Media Elite: Scan the talk shows. Who among the commentariat actually
believes Clinton? Practically nobody. The Punditburo has reached its decision,
but viewers don't want to hear it. The same goes for your average
inside-the-Beltway political reporters. Nearly all of them think Clinton is
blatantly lying, but they are constrained by popular demand and the additional
strictures of "objectivity." The inevitable result? The press will take it out
on Clinton in other ways, on more permissable, more substantive topics. If,
say, his Medicare numbers don't add up, expect him to be roasted for it with a
ferocity explicable only by reporters' frustration over what they perceive as
the Big Lie about sex.

            3) The Clintonistas: The most intriguing case. They may or may not believe
the Big Lie, but they can never admit it in public. Maybe they can't admit it
even to themselves. Just as old lefties could never concede that Alger Hiss was
guilty and Kennedy hands must keep downplaying evidence of JFK's recklessness,
they'll keep on spouting the spin. Further study will be required on the
long-term psychological impact of this denial, a condition known clinically as
Sorenseniasis. Sidney Blumenthal and Paul Begala, this means you! ...

            Chatterbox always wanted to do that.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Chatterbox Buries the Lead!

            
               MANY OF CHATTERBOX'S COLLEAGUES were impressed with Jane Fritsch's
analysis, in last Sunday's New York Times "Week in Review" section, of
exactly where the various parts of the Monica scandal come from. Chatterbox
thought it was a festival of cheap shots. For example, Fritsch implicitly
chastises Newsweek because the tape transcripts it printed "took six and
a half minutes to read aloud," when the entire tape was 90 minutes long. So
Newsweek was supposed to print all the boring parts about shopping? Did
the Times print every minute of every Nixon tape during Watergate, or
only the relevant parts? Fritsch also charges that Newsweek "left the
impression that Newsweek staff members had heard tapes containing all of
the most serious and salacious" accusations -e.g. about oral sex. Chatterbox,
for one, did not get that impression. Finally, Fritsch chastises the Los
Angeles Times for reporting that two Arkansas troopers had told its
reporters in 1993 that Clinton thought oral sex wasn't adultery. "The newspaper
had never before printed those five-year old comments from the unnamed
troopers," Fritsch sniffs. Of course, if the Los Angeles Times had
rushed those charges into print five years ago, Fritsch would probably have
been the first to call it irresponsible. And clearly "five-year old comments"
are more credible today than comments made recently, in the middle of a
feeding frenzy, would be. ...

            
               CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURE: Chatterbox is a friend of Michael
Isikoff's, whom it worships like a god. And Chatterbox recently applied for a
job at Newsweek. For some reason they've been too busy to return the
call. ...

            
               CREDIBILITY-ENHANCING ANTI- NEWSWEEK ITEM: 
               Newsweek
reprinted something that looks like the famous Lewinsky-Tripp "talking points"
in its Feb. 2 issue. The document appears to have been typed on a manual
typewriter. Aha! thought Chatterbox--whoever wrote them was so worried about
keeping them secret that he or she pecked them out by hand--perhaps on a
replica of Alger Hiss' old Woodstock! But no. Chatterbox has learned that what
Newsweek printed was...let's say a reenactment of what a more
photogenic version of the talking points might look like, presumably as cooked
up by the magazine's art department. Apparently the real talking points look
more like they came out of a laser printer.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Kathleen Willey Grope 'n' Gripe Extravaganza!

            
               A FEW MORE POINTS about the Kathleen Willey incident. As noted in
yesterday's Chatterbox, if true Willey's story is the worst of Clinton's
alleged sexual indiscretions--worse than Lewinsky, worse than Paula Jones. But
is Willey telling the truth? In his original Newsweek article on the
Willey/Willy business, reporter Michael Isikoff said Willey's "friend" Julie
Steele initially confirmed Willey's account, saying she (Steele) had heard the
gruesome details from Willey the night of the incident. But in the same article
Isikoff reported that Steele had later recanted and said that Willey "had asked
her to 'lie' about what had happened in order to give credibility to the
allegation that she had been harassed." According to Isikoff, Steele now said
that Willey only told her that "the president had made a pass at her," and not
until weeks after the incident. ...

            
               ARE WE TO BELIEVE Steele's recantation? Or had the same Mystery
Suborner who gave Monica Lewinsky anti-Willey "talking points" to give to Linda
Tripp--"you now do not believe that what she claimed happened really happened.
You now find it completely plausible that she herself smeared her
lipstick"--also given them to Steele, with greater success? Chatterbox has no
idea what the answer is. Steele's testimony will clearly now be very important.
But the mere existence of the "talking points" casts a retrospective cloud over
her semi-exculpatory recantation. ...

            
               STEELE'S NEW ACCOUNT is only "semi-exculpatory" because she did tell
Isikoff that Willey had talked to her about Clinton making a pass (just not an
unwanted pass). The New York Times , rehashing Isikoff's reporting
in a front-page piece last Saturday, conveniently omitted this point, leaving
the false impression that the first Steele had heard about any Clinton
pass was when Willey called to ask her to lie when Isikoff "was on his way to
her home." ...

            
               ONE ANTI-WILLEY CONSIDERATION is this: her husband apparently stole
about $274,000 of a client's money and didn't repay it. Instead, with the
repayment deadline looming, he committed suicide. Kathleen Willey got $1
million in insurance money after his death, and apparently didn't give
any of it to the poor client whose money was stolen. Indeed, she has
fought through protracted legal proceedings to successfully stiff him. Is
Chatterbox alone in finding this behavior deeply troubling? ...

            
               DESIGNATED SCANDAL VILLAIN LINDA TRIPP , of course, told Isikoff that
when she ran into Willey after Willey's Oval Office encounter, Willey looked
"flustered, happy, and joyful"--not harrassed. But is Tripp's account really
all that incompatible with Willey's? Even if Clinton had made an unwanted
grope, Willey still could have looked "flustered and happy" afterwards, and
maybe even have failed to tell Tripp she was at some level appalled. After all,
it must be a heady thing for the president make a pass at you, even an unwanted
pass--though Chatterbox has no personal experience in this department. Willey
may have been "joyful" that she was going to get the job she desperately
wanted. Even if Clinton's behavior was piggish, it's a bit unfair to expect
Willey to get instantly angry and dress down the president of the United States
as if he were the heavy in some "How to Stop Sex Harassment" training
video.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Name That Scandal: And the Winner Is ...

            Chatterbox has harnessed the vast power of the Net in search of a handy,
irresistible name for the Lewinsky-Tripp-Willey-Clinton scandal, and
Chatterbox's pathetic little hard drive now overflows with the results--more
than 215 responses, containing no less than 209 distinct suggestions. All we
can say is, For God's sake, stop! The contest is over!
            

            Explicitly disobeying Chatterbox's instructions, many entries contained the
despised "-gate" suffix, including the three most popular entries--"Fornigate"
(23 submissions), "Tailgate" (13), and "Zippergate" (12). Despite the
insubordination, Chatterbox actually likes each of these; "Fornigate" may well
wind up the name that wins out in popular usage. But somehow we can't see the
New York Times adopting it. So Chatterbox will pass over these excellent
entries, taking the advice of contest entrant Jonathan Weisberg to look for a
name that might at least conceivably wind up in a high-school history book.
Plus, Chatterbox doesn't want to have to buy the 23 copies of Leaves of
Grass it would take to reward the Fornigate brigade.

            Several other entries also fail the "history book" test. "Whitefluid" is too
dirty for anyone except Slate's Scott Shuger to use, as are "Pussygate,"
"Billygoat," "Deep Throat," "Starr 69," and one of Chattterbox's favorites,
"Come-a-lot," with its evocative, ironic historical reference. (Some Chatterbox
readers seem to have spent a bit too much time going through the X-rated bins
down at the video store.) The same goes for "Moby Dick," despite the useful
allusion to Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr's Ahab-like pursuit of proof of
the president's sinfulness. Chatterbox also likes "Incredible Sucking Sound,"
but doesn't want to annoy Ross Perot. Anyway, wasn't it a "giant sucking
sound"?

            "Daughtergate" is cute but ugly. "Interncourse" doesn't exactly flow easily
off the tongue, while "Wag the Intern" rests too heavily on an ephemeral
pop-culture reference that will be lost on future generations. "Potus
Interruptus" is pretty good, but too long for convenient headline usage. The
same goes for "Intern Explorer," which might also attract unwanted scrutiny
from the Department of Justice's antitrust division. Chatterbox likes "The
Johnson Presidency," "Sexpot Dome," and "Nookiegate," the last so reminiscent
